README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./img.png" alt="Project Banner" width="100%">
</p>

# PLACEMENTIQ 🎯

## Basic Details

### Team Name: TIRAMISU

### Team Members
- Member 1: DEVIPRIYA P - LBS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR WOMEN
- Member 2: KALYANI M G - LBS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR WOMEN

### Hosted Project Link
https://devipriya258.github.io/thh-placement-eval/

### Project Description
**PlacementIQ** is an AI-powered, browser-based career readiness platform that evaluates students across domain knowledge, aptitude, academics, and experience through 45+ curated questions across Technical, Engineering, and Management tracks. It delivers an instant, personalized placement readiness report with actionable recommendations — helping students identify skill gaps and walk into placements with confidence.

### The Problem statement
Every year, thousands of students enter campus placement season underprepared — not because they lack potential, but because they have no clear, objective measure of where they actually stand. Most students rely on gut feeling or peer comparison to gauge their readiness, often discovering critical skill gaps only after failing interviews. Existing solutions are either too generic, paywalled, or require institutional access, leaving the majority of students without a reliable self-assessment tool. There is no unified, accessible platform that evaluates a student's domain knowledge, aptitude, academic profile, and experience together — and translates that into honest, actionable feedback before it's too late.

### The Solution
PlacementIQ gives students instant, objective clarity on their placement readiness through a structured assessment covering domain knowledge, aptitude, academics, and experience — delivering a scored report with a clear readiness tier and actionable recommendations, completely free and browser-based.

It also connects colleges and recruiters into the loop. Placement cells get batch-wide analytics to intervene early, while recruiters get a lightweight pre-screening signal to surface prepared candidates faster.

**Students get direction. Colleges get intelligence. Recruiters get better talent.**

---

## Technical Details

### Technologies/Components Used

**For Software:**
- Languages used: HTML,CSS,JAVASCRIPT
- Frameworks used: NONE
- Libraries used: Google Fonts (Playfair Display, DM Mono, Nunito) for typography
- Tools used:  VS Code, Git,Chatgpt

**For Hardware:**
- Main components:Any device with a modern web browser (desktop, tablet, or mobile)
- Specifications: No minimum hardware requirements — lightweight single-file app with no backend, no database, and no installation

- Tools required:A browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari)

---

## Features

List the key features of your project:
- Feature 1: Domain-Specific Assessment: Students choose from Technical, Core Engineering, or Management tracks — each with a curated question bank of 15+ domain questions and 10 aptitude questions, randomly shuffled every attempt to ensure a fresh experience.
- Feature 2: Smart Scoring Engine: Results are computed across four parameters — domain accuracy, aptitude performance, CGPA, and work experience — producing a weighted readiness score, a clear tier (Placement Ready / Developing / Needs Work), and personalized improvement recommendations.
- Feature 3: Live Timed Assessment: A 15-minute countdown with a visual ring timer, question navigation palette, answered/unanswered tracking, and a confirmation-gated exit button — replicating the pressure and structure of a real placement test.
- Feature 4: College-Student-Recruiter Ecosystem: Designed to scale beyond individual use — placement cells can track batch-wide readiness and intervene early, while recruiters can use scores as a pre-screening signal to identify job-ready candidates faster.

---

## Implementation
No installation required.

### For Software:

#### Installation

no installations required


#### Run

Open placement_assessment.html in any modern web browser.



---

## Project Documentation

### For Software:
## 📸 Screenshots

### 1️⃣ screenshot1.png – Home Page
![screenshot1](screenshot1.png)
**Description:** This is the home page of the PlacementIQ application showing the main dashboard and navigation menu.

---

### 2️⃣ screenshot2.png – Student Dashboard
![screenshot2](screenshot2.png)
**Description:** Displays student details, placement status, and available job opportunities.

---

### 3️⃣ screenshot3.png – Company Listings
![screenshot3](screenshot3.png)
**Description:** Shows the list of companies participating in placements along with eligibility criteria.

---

### 4️⃣ screenshot5.png – Admin Panel
![screenshot5](screenshot5.png)
**Description:** Admin interface for managing students, companies, and placement records.

#### Diagrams

**System Architecture:**

![Architecture Diagram](placementiq_architecture.png)
*PlacementIQ is a zero-dependency, single-file web app where all logic runs entirely in the browser. A central JavaScript state object manages data across all five views — Landing, Details Form, Career Selection, Assessment, and Results. The scoring engine combines domain accuracy, aptitude, CGPA, and experience into a weighted readiness score, rendered instantly with no server calls required.*

**Application Workflow:**

![Workflow](placementiq_flowchart.png)
The user begins by entering their academic profile, which is validated before proceeding. They then select a career domain — Technical, Core Engineering, or Management — which filters and shuffles the question bank. A 15-minute timed assessment follows, after which the scoring engine processes all inputs and delivers a personalized readiness report with actionable recommendations.

---



#### Team Photos

![Team](groupphoto.jpeg)


### final screenshot
![Final screenshot](screenshot1.png)
The image shows a PlacementIQ landing page — a dark-themed, AI-powered skill assessment platform. The hero section features bold typography with the headline "Know Your Placement Readiness", where "Placement" is highlighted in gold/yellow.
On the right side, there's a Sample Skills Profile card displaying a breakdown of scores across five categories — Technical (78%), Aptitude (65%), Domain (82%), Problem Solving (55%), and Communication (70%) — shown as gradient progress bars, with an Overall Readiness score of 72%.
At the bottom, three quick stats highlight the assessment scope: 45+ questions, 3 domains, and ~15 minutes to complete. The overall design is clean, minimal, and professional with a black background, gold accents, and teal/green gradient bar elements.

---


## Project Demo

### Video
[video link](mainvideo.mp4)

*Explain what the video demonstrates - key features, user flow, technical highlights*



---

## AI Tools Used (Optional - For Transparency Bonus)
**Tool Used:** Claude AI
**Purpose:** [What you used it for]
- Example: "Generated boilerplate React components"
- Example: "Debugging assistance for async functions"
- Example: "Code review and optimization suggestions"

**Key Prompts Used:**
-"Complete the app with a new UI, functionality, validations and implement dummy data. Store as many questions as you can in memory."
- "Add an exit button while doing the assessment"
- "Maintaining all current fields, add confirmation modal on exit"

**Percentage of AI-generated code:** Approximately 50%

**Human Contributions:**
- Ideation & Architectures.
- Design & UX Decisions
- Content & Logic Design 
- Testing & Iteration



---

## Team Contributions

- Devipriya P — Project ideation, problem statement definition, product architecture design, UI/UX decisions, frontend development, and application testing across browsers and edge cases.
- Kalyani M G — Domain research, question bank curation and validation, scoring logic design, result tier and recommendation framework, and hackathon documentation.

---

## License

## 📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


---

Made with ❤️ at TinkerHub

Commit message:

Enhance README with PlacementIQ execution overview
Added an execution overview for PlacementIQ, detailing its features and functionality.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./img.png" alt="Project Banner" width="100%">
</p>

# PLACEMENTIQ 🎯

## Basic Details

### Team Name: TIRAMISU

### Team Members
- Member 1: DEVIPRIYA P - LBS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR WOMEN
- Member 2: KALYANI M G - LBS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR WOMEN

### Hosted Project Link
https://devipriya258.github.io/thh-placement-eval/

### Project Description
**PlacementIQ** is an AI-powered, browser-based career readiness platform that evaluates students across domain knowledge, aptitude, academics, and experience through 45+ curated questions across Technical, Engineering, and Management tracks. It delivers an instant, personalized placement readiness report with actionable recommendations — helping students identify skill gaps and walk into placements with confidence.

### The Problem statement
Every year, thousands of students enter campus placement season underprepared — not because they lack potential, but because they have no clear, objective measure of where they actually stand. Most students rely on gut feeling or peer comparison to gauge their readiness, often discovering critical skill gaps only after failing interviews. Existing solutions are either too generic, paywalled, or require institutional access, leaving the majority of students without a reliable self-assessment tool. There is no unified, accessible platform that evaluates a student's domain knowledge, aptitude, academic profile, and experience together — and translates that into honest, actionable feedback before it's too late.

### The Solution
PlacementIQ gives students instant, objective clarity on their placement readiness through a structured assessment covering domain knowledge, aptitude, academics, and experience — delivering a scored report with a clear readiness tier and actionable recommendations, completely free and browser-based.

It also connects colleges and recruiters into the loop. Placement cells get batch-wide analytics to intervene early, while recruiters get a lightweight pre-screening signal to surface prepared candidates faster.

**Students get direction. Colleges get intelligence. Recruiters get better talent.**

---

## Technical Details

### Technologies/Components Used

**For Software:**
- Languages used: HTML,CSS,JAVASCRIPT
- Frameworks used: NONE
- Libraries used: Google Fonts (Playfair Display, DM Mono, Nunito) for typography
- Tools used:  VS Code, Git,Chatgpt

**For Hardware:**
- Main components:Any device with a modern web browser (desktop, tablet, or mobile)
- Specifications: No minimum hardware requirements — lightweight single-file app with no backend, no database, and no installation

- Tools required:A browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari)

---

## Features

List the key features of your project:
- Feature 1: Domain-Specific Assessment: Students choose from Technical, Core Engineering, or Management tracks — each with a curated question bank of 15+ domain questions and 10 aptitude questions, randomly shuffled every attempt to ensure a fresh experience.
- Feature 2: Smart Scoring Engine: Results are computed across four parameters — domain accuracy, aptitude performance, CGPA, and work experience — producing a weighted readiness score, a clear tier (Placement Ready / Developing / Needs Work), and personalized improvement recommendations.
- Feature 3: Live Timed Assessment: A 15-minute countdown with a visual ring timer, question navigation palette, answered/unanswered tracking, and a confirmation-gated exit button — replicating the pressure and structure of a real placement test.
- Feature 4: College-Student-Recruiter Ecosystem: Designed to scale beyond individual use — placement cells can track batch-wide readiness and intervene early, while recruiters can use scores as a pre-screening signal to identify job-ready candidates faster.

---

## Implementation
No installation required.

### For Software:

#### Installation

no installations required


#### Run

Open placement_assessment.html in any modern web browser.



---

## Project Documentation

### For Software:
## 📸 Screenshots

### 1️⃣ screenshot1.png – Home Page
![screenshot1](screenshot1.png)
**Description:** This is the home page of the PlacementIQ application showing the main dashboard and navigation menu.

---

### 2️⃣ screenshot2.png – Student Dashboard
![screenshot2](screenshot2.png)
**Description:** Displays student details, placement status, and available job opportunities.

---

### 3️⃣ screenshot3.png – Company Listings
![screenshot3](screenshot3.png)
**Description:** Shows the list of companies participating in placements along with eligibility criteria.

---

### 4️⃣ screenshot5.png – Admin Panel
![screenshot5](screenshot5.png)
**Description:** Admin interface for managing students, companies, and placement records.

#### Diagrams

**System Architecture:**

![Architecture Diagram](placementiq_architecture.png)
*PlacementIQ is a zero-dependency, single-file web app where all logic runs entirely in the browser. A central JavaScript state object manages data across all five views — Landing, Details Form, Career Selection, Assessment, and Results. The scoring engine combines domain accuracy, aptitude, CGPA, and experience into a weighted readiness score, rendered instantly with no server calls required.*

**Application Workflow:**

![Workflow](placementiq_flowchart.png)
The user begins by entering their academic profile, which is validated before proceeding. They then select a career domain — Technical, Core Engineering, or Management — which filters and shuffles the question bank. A 15-minute timed assessment follows, after which the scoring engine processes all inputs and delivers a personalized readiness report with actionable recommendations.

---



#### Team Photos

![Team](groupphoto.jpeg)


### final screenshot
![Final screenshot](screenshot1.png)
The image shows a PlacementIQ landing page — a dark-themed, AI-powered skill assessment platform. The hero section features bold typography with the headline "Know Your Placement Readiness", where "Placement" is highlighted in gold/yellow.
On the right side, there's a Sample Skills Profile card displaying a breakdown of scores across five categories — Technical (78%), Aptitude (65%), Domain (82%), Problem Solving (55%), and Communication (70%) — shown as gradient progress bars, with an Overall Readiness score of 72%.
At the bottom, three quick stats highlight the assessment scope: 45+ questions, 3 domains, and ~15 minutes to complete. The overall design is clean, minimal, and professional with a black background, gold accents, and teal/green gradient bar elements.

---


## Project Demo

### Video
[video link](mainvideo.mp4)

**Execution Overview**

PlacementIQ is built as a **zero-dependency, single-file web application** — no frameworks, no backend, no installation required. It runs entirely in the browser using vanilla HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

The app follows a **multi-step onboarding flow** that collects student details including academic performance, domain, and experience before routing them into the appropriate assessment track. The assessment engine dynamically loads 45+ curated questions based on the selected track — Technical, Core Engineering, or Management — with a **live countdown timer** managing the session in real time.

Once completed, the scoring engine processes responses across five skill dimensions — Technical, Aptitude, Domain, Problem Solving, and Communication — and computes a weighted **Overall Readiness Score**. The results page renders an instant, personalized report complete with a visual skills profile, percentage breakdowns, and **score-driven recommendations** that highlight strengths and flag areas for improvement.

The entire experience is designed to be **lightweight, fast, and accessible** — deployable as a single `.html` file with no server, no database, and no sign-up required, making it instantly shareable and easy to run on any device with a modern browser.


---

## AI Tools Used (Optional - For Transparency Bonus)
**Tool Used:** Claude AI
**Purpose:** [What you used it for]
- Example: "Generated boilerplate React components"
- Example: "Debugging assistance for async functions"
- Example: "Code review and optimization suggestions"

**Key Prompts Used:**
-"Complete the app with a new UI, functionality, validations and implement dummy data. Store as many questions as you can in memory."
- "Add an exit button while doing the assessment"
- "Maintaining all current fields, add confirmation modal on exit"

**Percentage of AI-generated code:** Approximately 50%

**Human Contributions:**
- Ideation & Architectures.
- Design & UX Decisions
- Content & Logic Design 
- Testing & Iteration



---

## Team Contributions

- Devipriya P — Project ideation, problem statement definition, product architecture design, UI/UX decisions, frontend development, and application testing across browsers and edge cases.
- Kalyani M G — Domain research, question bank curation and validation, scoring logic design, result tier and recommendation framework, and hackathon documentation.

---

## License

## 📄 License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


---

Made with ❤️ at TinkerHub
